Creating heroku app doc (#3049)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/web-servers/heroku.md

### Collecting Logs via Sumo Logic Add-on

The Sumo Logic add-on for Heroku helps you to monitor Heroku apps and harness the power of machine data with effortless log management that delivers business and operational insights within minutes.

:::note
It is recommended to attach a Heroku add-on just after creating an app or running the ```heroku create``` command to help observe Heroku logs for all events that may follow for the app.
:::

#### Provisioning the Sumo Logic add-on via CLI

Provisioning the Sumo Logic add-on via the CLI allows us to monitor a single app as well as multiple apps using the same add-on. It creates a Sumo Logic free trail account for analyzing the Heroku logs. You would first need to [install](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#install-the-heroku-cli) the Heroku CLI. The following sections show how to configure the add-on for Heroku apps.

##### Monitor a Single app

For a single app, run the following command in your app directory:
```
$ heroku addons:create sumologic
-----> Adding sumologic to sharp-mountain-4005... done, v18 (free)
```

> ##### Monitor Multiple Apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Monitor Multiple apps
```

To monitor multiple applications, you can share the same Sumo Logic add-on with multiple applications.

> First, provision the add-on for your first application by running the following command in your app directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. Provision the add-on for your first application by running the following command in your app directory:
```

```
$ heroku addons:create sumologic
-----> Creating sumologic-test-horizontal-9854... done, (free)
-----> Adding sumologic-test-horizontal-9854... done
```

> Next, attach the add-on to your additional applications using the name of the add-on returned by the create command. Then run the following command in your app directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Attach the add-on to your additional applications using the name of the add-on returned by the create command. Then run the following command in your app directory:
```

```
$ heroku addons:attach sumologic-test-horizontal-9854
-----> Attaching sumologic-test-horizontal-9854... done
```

:::note
You can also run ```heroku drains``` or ```heroku drains --json``` command in your app directory to find the name of an existing Sumo Logic add-on of an app which can be attached to a new app.
:::

> You can now access Sumo Logic. Run the following command in your app directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command in your app directory to access Sumo Logic.
```

#### Provisioning the Sumo Logic add-on via the UI

Provisioning the Sumo Logic add-on via the UI allows us to monitor a single app. The steps to do so are as follows:
1. Sign in to your [Heroku Dashboard](https://dashboard.heroku.com/) to view information about your apps.
2. Click on an app to view an in-depth page about the app, which also shows all the **Installed add-ons** in the **Overview** tab.
3. Click on **Configure Add-ons** and then search for **Sumo Logic**.
4. Click on the **Sumo Logic** add-on to open up a add-on order form.
5. Choose the **Plan name** and click on the **Submit Order Form** button.

You will now be able to see the **Sumo Logic** add-on in the **Installed add-ons** section of you app's **Overview** tab. Clicking on that add-on redirects to open up a Sumo Logic free trail account. Fill up the Sumo Logic onboarding form with the relevant details and click on **Get Started** to use Sumo Logic. The Sumo Logic add-on for Heroku sets the value of **_sourceCategory** for your Heroku log data to **heroku**.

### Collecting Logs via HTTPS Log Drain

> A HTTPS Log Drain can be attached to a Heroku application via the CLI. You need the **URL** of a [https logs source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/http-source/logs-metrics/) on a [hosted collector](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/configure-hosted-collector/) in any [Sumo Logic account](/docs/manage/manage-subscription/) and need to [install](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#install-the-heroku-cli) the Heroku CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A HTTPS Log Drain can be attached to a Heroku application via the CLI. You need the **URL** of a [HTTPs logs source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/http-source/logs-metrics/) on a [hosted collector](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/configure-hosted-collector/) in any [Sumo Logic account](/docs/manage/manage-subscription/) and need to [install](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#install-the-heroku-cli) the Heroku CLI.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Then, you add an HTTPS drain for an app named **myapp**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add an HTTPS drain for an app named **myapp**:
```

```
$ heroku drains:add <URL> -a myapp
```

You will now be able to see Heroku logs flowing into that HTTP source in Sumo Logic. You can also attach the same URL to multiple apps for a single log drain.

## Collecting Mertic Logs for Heroku

The Heroku Labs log-runtime-metrics feature adds experimental support for enabling visibility into load and memory usage for running dynos. Per-dyno stats on memory use, swap use, and load average are inserted into the app’s log stream where they can be seen via ```heroku logs --tail```, used for graphs or alerting via an add-on which consumes app logs, or sent to a log drain. There is no cost incurred by enabling this feature.

> To collect metric logs for an app, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the below steps to collect metric logs for an app:
```

2. Enable the log-runtime-metrics:
```
$ heroku labs:enable log-runtime-metrics --app example-app
Enabling log-runtime-metrics for example-app... done
$ heroku restart
```

The metric logs will start flowing into the Sumo Logic endpoint attached to your app. The load and memory usage metrics are surfaced as system logs in the Logplex log stream. Metrics are emitted for each running dyno, at an approximate frequency of once every 20 seconds.

You can also disable this feature by:
```
$ heroku labs:disable log-runtime-metrics --app example-app
Disabling log-runtime-metrics for example-app... done
$ heroku restart
```

## (Optional) Set up field extraction rules for applications

This step is optional, but recommended, as it makes easier for you to query your Heroku application logs in Sumo Logic. When Sumo Logic ingests Heroku application logs, it attaches the **_sourceName** metadata field to the the data. The **_sourceName** Sumo Logic assigns varies by application—its value is the unique identifier for the Logplex drain assigned to the application.

> For ease of understanding the log data, you can use a **field extraction rule (FER)** to rename **_sourceName** from the drain UUID to the application name. For general information about FERs, refer to [Create a Field Extraction Rule](/docs/manage/field-extractions/create-field-extraction-rule/) in Sumo help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For ease of understanding the log data, you can use a **Field Extraction Rule (FER)** to rename **_sourceName** from the drain UUID to the application name. For general information about FERs, refer to [Create a Field Extraction Rule](/docs/manage/field-extractions/create-field-extraction-rule/) in Sumo help.
```

> You can determine the drain identifier by running the ```heroku drains``` command for your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Determine the drain identifier by running the ```heroku drains``` command for your app. The identifier will look something like:
```

> The identifier will look something like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```
d.98ee476d-d2d8-46bf-afc2-740f6f7e5b2a
```

> Then, define an FER in Sumo Logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Define an FER in Sumo Logic.
```

> 1. In the Sumo web app, go to **Manage Data > Settings > Field Extraction Rules**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Sumo Logic web app, go to **Manage Data > Settings > Field Extraction Rules**.
```

> 2. Click the plus sign (+) in the upper left corner of the page to display the **Create Field Extraction Rule** popup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the **+** in the upper left corner of the page, to display the **Create Field Extraction Rule** popup.
```

> 3. **Rule Name** : Enter a name for the FER.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Rule Name**. Enter a name for the FER.
```

> 4. **Scope** : Enter **_sourceCategory=heroku** when the collection is setup via the Sumo Add-on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Scope**. Enter **_sourceCategory=heroku** when the collection is setup via the Sumo Add-on.
```

> 5. **Parse Expression** : For each Heroku application reporting data to Sumo, enter a statement that renames the ``_sourceName`` from the drain ID to the application name. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Parse Expression**. For each Heroku application reporting data to the Sumo Logic, enter a statement that renames the ``_sourceName`` from the drain ID to the application name. For example:
```

``if (_sourceName="Drain_ID", "Application_Name", _sourceName) as _sourceName``

The FER below changes the value of ``_sourceName`` for two applications. The first line changes ``_sourceName`` from “d.98ee476d-d2d8-46bf-afc2-740f6f7e5b2a” to “CustApp”. The second line changes ``_sourceName`` from “d.00870f28-53f9-4680-b2ab-2287ec9d8637” to “VendorApp”:

``if (_sourceName="d.98ee476d-d2d8-46bf-afc2-740f6f7e5b2a", "CustApp", _sourceName) as _sourceName``

``| if (_sourceName="d.00870f28-53f9-4680-b2ab-2287ec9d8637", "VendorApp", _sourceName) as _sourceName``

> Click Add to save the rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click **Add** to save the rule.
```

These custom app **_sourceNames** will appear as values in the dashboard filter variable ``log_drain`` for the Heroku app dashboards.

## Installing the Heroku App

This section provides instructions for installing the Heroku App.

Now that you have set up collection for Heroku, you can install the Heroku App to use the preconfigured searches and Dashboards that provide insight into your data.

{@import ../../reuse/apps/app-install.md}

:::note
While using the **Sumo Add-on**, the value **_sourceCategory=heroku** should be used while installing the app.
:::

## Viewing Heroku Dashboards

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{@import ../../reuse/filter-dashboards.md}

```

> ### Filters with Template Variables

Reviewer: The previous reuse file imported consists of this information.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Template variables provide dynamic dashboards that rescope data on the fly. As you apply variables to troubleshoot through your dashboard, you can view dynamic changes to the data for a fast resolution to the root cause. For more information, see the Filter with template variables help [page](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/dashboards/filter-template-variables/).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Heroku - Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###  Overview
```

> This dashboard demonstrates use cases for heroku request timings, response latencies, dyno and error overviews. It also showscases their daily trends. This dashboard has two filter variables namely, ``log_drain`` and ``application_name``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Heroku - Overview** dashboard demonstrates the use cases for Heroku request timings, response latencies, dyno, and error overviews. It also showscases their daily trends. This dashboard has two filter variables namely, ``log_drain`` and ``application_name``.
```

> ``log_drain`` denotes the drain identifier heroku attaches with the _sourceName metadata while ingesting heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **log_drain**. Denotes the drain identifier Heroku attaches with the ``_sourceName`` metadata while ingesting Heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.
```

> ``application_name`` denotes an application name from the heroku platform. It works on all panels of the dashboard except the ``Errors Overview`` panels, ``the Dyno Load Average(15 min)`` panel and the ``Dyno Memory(MB)`` panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**application_name**. Denotes an application name from the Heroku platform. It works on all panels of the dashboard except the **Errors Overview** panels, **Dyno Load Average(15 min)** panel, and **Dyno Memory(MB)** panel.
```

> #### Panels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**MBs Transferred by Dyno Over Time**. Shows the total load trend returned by each dyno.

**Response Throughput by Status Code**. Shows the response throughput by various status codes over a period of time.

**Total Errors by Host**. Shows the disctribution of errors returned either by heroku or application infrastructure.

**Overall/App/Heroku Error Rate**. Shows the error generation percentage of all/app/heroku platform components.

**Total Errors by Component**. Shows the disctribution of errors returned by different heroku infrastructure components.

**Max/Average/50th Percentile Connect Time Trend**. Shows the maximum,average and the 50th percentile average connection time trend for Heroku app requests.

**Max/Average/50th Percentile Latency Trend**. Shows the maximum, average and the 50th percentile average service time latency trend for Heroku app responses.

**Max/Average/50th Percentile Path Latency**. Shows the maximum, average and the 50th percentile average service time latency for Heroku app request paths.

**Max/Average/50th Percentile Method Latency**. Shows the maximum, average and the 50th percentile average service time latency for Heroku app request methods.

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/heroku-overview.png')} alt="Heroku dashboards" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/heroku-overview.png')} style={{border: '1px solid black'}} alt="Heroku dashboards" />
```

> ### Heroku - Dyno

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dyno
```

> This dashboard demonstrates use cases for successful, completed and crashed heroku dyno launches, providing information about their daily trends. Also, it has information on dyno stops, restarts and scaling operationsThis dashboard has a single filter variable namely, ``log_drain``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The  **Heroku - Dyno** dashboard demonstrates the use cases for successful, completed, and crashed Heroku dyno launches, providing information about their daily trends. Also, it has information on dyno stops, restarts, and scaling operations. This dashboard has a single filter variable namely, ``log_drain``.
```

> ``log_drain`` denotes the drain identifier heroku attaches with the _sourceName metadata while ingesting heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**log_drain**. Denotes the drain identifier Heroku attaches with the ``_sourceName`` metadata while ingesting Heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.
```

> #### Panels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**Successful Dyno Launches**. Shows the count of dynos that have successfully started and are now running in a healthy state.

**Completed Dyno Launches**. Shows the count of dynos that have finished executing their designated tasks or commands and have now terminated.

**Process Exit Status by Code**. Shows the process exit status codes for various dyno operations

> Other panels are self explanatory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Why should we remove this?

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/heroku-dyno.png')} alt="Heroku dashboards" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/heroku-dyno.png')} style={{border: '1px solid black'}} alt="Heroku dashboards" />
```

> ### Heroku - Application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Application
```

> This dashboard demonstrates use cases for heroku app builds, providing information about their success and failure trends. Also, it has information on app deployments and releases. This dashboard has a single filter variable namely, ``log_drain``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The  **Heroku - Application** dashboard demonstrates the use cases for Heroku app builds, providing information about their success and failure trends. Also, it has information on app deployments and releases. This dashboard has a single filter variable namely, ``log_drain``.
```

> ``log_drain`` denotes the drain identifier heroku attaches with the _sourceName metadata while ingesting heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**log_drain**. Denotes the drain identifier Heroku attaches with the ``_sourceName`` metadata while ingesting Heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.
```

> Panels here are self explanatory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Why should we remove this?

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/heroku-application.png')} alt="Heroku dashboards" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/heroku-application.png')} style={{border: '1px solid black'}} alt="Heroku dashboards" />
```

> ### Heroku - Memory Metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Memory Metrics
```

> This dashboard demonstrates use cases for the metrics which are reported for memory consumption and swap. This dashboard has two filter variables namely, ``dyno`` and ``log_drain``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The  **Heroku - Memory Metrics** dashboard demonstrates the use cases for the metrics which are reported for memory consumption and swap. This dashboard has two filter variables namely, ``dyno`` and ``log_drain``.
```

> ``dyno`` denotes the name of dynos present in the heroku applications. It works on all panels of the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**dyno**. Denotes the name of dynos present in the Heroku applications. It works on all panels of the dashboard.
```

> ``log_drain`` denotes the drain identifier heroku attaches with the _sourceName metadata while ingesting heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**log_drain**. Denotes the drain identifier that the Heroku attaches with the ``_sourceName`` metadata while ingesting Heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.
```

**Resident Memory (memory_rss)**. The portion of the dyno’s memory (megabytes) held in RAM.

**Disk Cache Memory (memory_cache)**. The portion of the dyno’s memory (megabytes) used as disk cache.

**Swap Memory (memory_swap)**. The portion of a dyno’s memory, in megabytes, stored on disk. It’s normal for an app to use a few megabytes of swap per dyno. Higher levels of swap usage though may indicate too much memory usage when compared to the dyno size. This can lead to slow response times and should be avoided.

**Total Memory (memory_total)**. The total memory (megabytes) being used by the dyno, equal to the sum of resident, cache, and swap memory.

**Memory Quota (memory_quota)**. The resident memory (memory_rss) value (megabytes) at which an R14 is triggered.

**Pages Written to Disk (memory_pgpgout)**. The cumulative total of the pages written to disk. Sudden high variations on this number can indicate short duration spikes in swap usage. The other memory related metrics are point in time snapshots and can miss short spikes.

**Pages Read from Disk (memory_pgpgin)**. The cumulative total of the pages read from disk. As with the previous metric, watch out for sudden variations.

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/heroku-memory-metrics.png')} alt="Heroku dashboards" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/heroku-memory-metrics.png')} style={{border: '1px solid black'}} alt="Heroku dashboards" />
```

> ### Heroku - CPU Load Metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### CPU Load Metrics
```

> This dashboard demonstrates use cases for the metrics which are reported for CPU load average. This dashboard has two filter variables namely, ``dyno`` and ``log_drain``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Heroku - CPU Load Metrics** dashboard demonstrates the use cases for the metrics which are reported for CPU load average. This dashboard has two filter variables namely, ``dyno`` and ``log_drain``.
```

> ``dyno`` denotes the name of dynos present in the heroku applications. It works on all panels of the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**dyno**. Denotes the name of dynos present in the Heroku applications. It works on all panels of the dashboard.
```

> ``log_drain`` denotes the drain identifier heroku attaches with the _sourceName metadata while ingesting heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**log_drain**. Denotes the drain identifier that the Heroku attaches with the ``_sourceName`` metadata while ingesting Heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.
```

The following fields are reported for CPU load average:

**Load Average 1m (load_avg_1m)**. The load average for the dyno in the last 1 minute. This reflects the number of CPU tasks that are in the ready queue (i.e. waiting to be processed).

**Load Average 5m (load_avg_5m)**. The load average for the dyno in the last 5 minutes. Computed in the same manner as 1m load average.

**Load Average 15m (load_avg_15m)**. The load average for the dyno in the last 15 minutes. Computed in the same manner as 1m load average.

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/heroku-cpu-load-metrics.png')} alt="Heroku dashboards" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/heroku-cpu-load-metrics.png')} style={{border: '1px solid black'}} alt="Heroku dashboards" />
```

> ### Heroku - Infrastructure Errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Infrastructure Errors
```

> This dashboard demonstrates use cases for heroku infrastructure errors, providing information about different types of errors and other observations. It also shows the trends of these heroku infrastructure errors. This dashboard has two filter variables namely, ``log_drain`` and ``application_name``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Heroku - Infrastructure Errors** dashboard demonstrates the use cases for Heroku infrastructure errors, providing information about different types of errors and other observations. It also shows the trends of these Heroku infrastructure errors. This dashboard has two filter variables namely, ``log_drain`` and ``application_name``.
```

> ``log_drain`` denotes the drain identifier heroku attaches with the _sourceName metadata while ingesting heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**log_drain**. Denotes the drain identifier that the Heroku attaches with the ``_sourceName`` metadata while ingesting Heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.
```

> ``application_name`` denotes an application name from the heroku platform. It works on all panels of the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**application_name**. Denotes an application name from the Heroku platform. It works on all panels of the dashboard.
```

The panels of this dashboard try to cover a few error cases from the list of errors present [here](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/error-codes).

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/heroku-infrastructure-errors.png')} alt="Heroku dashboards" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/heroku-infrastructure-errors.png')} style={{border: '1px solid black'}} alt="Heroku dashboards" />
```

> ### Heroku - Application Errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Application Errors
```

> This dashboard demonstrates use cases for heroku app errors, providing information about different types of errors and other observations. It also the trends of these heroku app errors. This dashboard has a single filter variable namely, ``log_drain``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Heroku - Application Errors** dashboard demonstrates the use cases for Heroku app errors, providing information about different types of errors and other observations. It also the trends of these Heroku app errors. This dashboard has a single filter variable namely, ``log_drain``.
```

> ``log_drain`` denotes the drain identifier heroku attaches with the _sourceName metadata while ingesting heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**log_drain**. Denotes the drain identifier that the Heroku attaches with the ``_sourceName`` metadata while ingesting Heroku logs. It works on all panels of the dashboard.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> #### Panels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
id: heroku
title: Heroku
sidebar_label: Heroku

> description: The Heroku App is used to monitor heroku infrastructure, applications, metrics and error scenarios to ensure observability into heroku and its components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: The Heroku app is used to monitor Heroku infrastructure, applications, metrics, and error scenarios to ensure observability into Heroku and its components.
```

---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/Heroku.png')} alt="Heroku Icon" height="50" width="50" />

> The Sumo Logic App for Heroku is a logs only app that allows you to monitor your Heroku environment. The preconfigured dashboards present information to monitor heroku infrastructure, applications, metrics and error scenarios to ensure observability into heroku and its components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sumo Logic app for Heroku is a logs only app that allows you to monitor your Heroku environment. The preconfigured dashboards present information to monitor Heroku infrastructure, applications, metrics, and error scenarios to ensure observability into Heroku and its components.
```

## Log types

* Heroku’s [Logplex logging service](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/logging) makes it easy to collect logs from its applications and forward them to Sumo. We use a [HTTPS log drain](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/log-drains#https-drains) to send [Syslog-formatted](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5424#section-6) messages to an HTTPS endpoint via a POST request.

* The Heroku Labs [log-runtime-metrics](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/log-runtime-metrics) feature adds experimental support for enabling visibility into load and memory usage for running dynos.

### Sample log message

> * A Logplex POST body resembles the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: This won't work. I prefer keeping it the way it is.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` title="Logplex POST"
```

Author: This won't work. I prefer keeping it the way it is.

83 <40>1 2012-11-30T06:45:29+00:00 host app web.3 - State changed from starting to up
119 <40>1 2012-11-30T06:45:26+00:00 host app web.3 - Starting process with command `bundle exec rackup config.ru -p 24405
```

> * Runtime metric logs have the following format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: This won't work. I prefer keeping it the way it is.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` title="Runtime metric logs"
```

Author: This won't work. I prefer keeping it the way it is.

335 <134>1 2023-08-24T10:28:47.153192+00:00 host heroku web.1 - source=web.1 dyno=heroku.322071457.63c5abfd-838b-4e2d-bce1-ce46de280675 sample#memory_total=180.43MB sample#memory_rss=180.05MB sample#memory_cache=0.38MB sample#memory_swap=0.00MB sample#memory_pgpgin=84329pages sample#memory_pgpgout=38140pages sample#memory_quota=512.00MB
205 <134>1 2023-08-24T12:31:50.112+00:00 host heroku web.1 - source=web.1 dyno=heroku.319324155.67cc34d0-0440-4106-97b6-d9486f7d9009 sample#load_avg_1m=0.00 sample#load_avg_5m=0.00 sample#load_avg_15m=0.01
```

### Sample query

#### Log Query

> * **Successfull App Build Trend** panel query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```sql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sql title="Successful app build trend"
```

_sourceCategory="Heroku" "Build Succeeded"
| where _sourceName matches "{{log_drain}}"
| _sourceName as log_drain
| timeslice 5m
| count by log_drain, _timeslice
| transpose row _timeslice column log_drain
```

#### Metric Log Query

> * **Memory Utilization (MB)** panel query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```sql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sql title="Memory Utilization (MB) panel"
```

_sourceCategory="Heroku"
| parse regex "dyno=(?<dyno>.*?(?= )).*memory_total=(?<memory_total>.*?(?=MB )).*memory_rss=(?<memory_rss>.*?(?=MB )).*memory_cache=(?<memory_cache>.*?(?=MB )).*memory_swap=(?<memory_swap>.*?(?=MB ))"
| where dyno matches "{{dyno}}" and _sourceName matches "{{log_drain}}"
| timeslice 1m
| avg(memory_total) as memory_total, avg(memory_rss) as resident_memory, avg(memory_cache) as disk_cache_memory, avg(memory_swap) as swap_memory by _timeslice
```

## Collecting Logs for Heroku

> Heroku is a cloud platform that lets companies build, deliver, monitor and scale apps in 8 programming languages namely Node.js, Ruby, Python, Java, PHP, Go, Scala and Clojure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Heroku is a cloud platform that lets companies build, deliver, monitor, and scale apps in eight programming languages namely Node.js, Ruby, Python, Java, PHP, Go, Scala, and Clojure.
```

> There are two ways to send Heroku logs to Sumo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to send Heroku logs to Sumo Logic:
```

> * [Sumo Logic Add-on](https://elements.heroku.com/addons/sumologic) : The Sumo Logic Add-on can be attached to a Heroku application via the the CLI or the UI. It automatically creates a Sumo Logic free trial account that contains a [https logs source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/http-source/logs-metrics/) on a [hosted collector](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/configure-hosted-collector/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **[Sumo Logic Add-on](https://elements.heroku.com/addons/sumologic)**. The Sumo Logic Add-on can be attached to a Heroku application via the CLI or the UI. It automatically creates a Sumo Logic free trial account that contains a [https logs source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/http-source/logs-metrics/) on a [hosted collector](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/configure-hosted-collector/).
```

> * [HTTPS Log Drain](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/log-drains#https-drains) : A HTTPS Log Drain can be attached to a Heroku application via the CLI. It can be used to send logs to a [http logs source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/http-source/logs-metrics/) for any type of [Sumo Logic account](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/manage/manage-subscription/) as per your requirement. The Sumo Logic Add-on internally wraps this method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **[HTTPS Log Drain](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/log-drains#https-drains)**. A HTTPS Log Drain can be attached to a Heroku application via the CLI. It can be used to send logs to a [http logs source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/http-source/logs-metrics/) for any type of [Sumo Logic account](/docs/manage/manage-subscription/) as per your requirement. The Sumo Logic Add-on internally wraps this method.
```

### Collecting Logs via Sumo Logic Add-on

> The Sumo Logic add-on for Heroku helps you monitor Heroku apps and harness the power of machine data with effortless log management that delivers business and operational insights within minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sumo Logic add-on for Heroku helps you to monitor Heroku apps and harness the power of machine data with effortless log management that delivers business and operational insights within minutes.
```

> :::tip NOTE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
```

> It is recommended to attach a heroku add-on just after creating an app or running the ```heroku create``` command to help observe heroku logs for all events that may follow for the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to attach a Heroku add-on just after creating an app or running the ```heroku create``` command to help observe Heroku logs for all events that may follow for the app.
```

:::

> * #### Provisioning the Sumo Logic add-on via the CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Provisioning the Sumo Logic add-on via the CLI
```

>     Provisioning the Sumo Logic add-on via the CLI allows us to mointor a single app as well as multiple apps using the same add-on. It creates a Sumo Logic free trail account for analyzing the Heroku logs. You would first need to install the Heroku CLI. Follow these [instructions](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#install-the-heroku-cli) to install the CLI. The following sections show how to configure the add-on for heroku apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provisioning the Sumo Logic add-on via the CLI allows us to mointor a single app as well as multiple apps using the same add-on. It creates a Sumo Logic free trail account for analyzing the Heroku logs. You would first need to [install](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#install-the-heroku-cli) the Heroku CLI. The following sections show how to configure the add-on for Heroku apps.
```

>     *  ##### Monitor a Single App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Monitor a Single app
```

>     For a single app, run the following command in your app directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a single app, run the following command in your app directory:
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
```

>     $ heroku addons:create sumologic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ heroku addons:create sumologic
```

>     -----> Adding sumologic to sharp-mountain-4005... done, v18 (free)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-----> Adding sumologic to sharp-mountain-4005... done, v18 (free)
```

    ```

>     * ##### Monitor Multiple Apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Monitor Multiple apps
```

>     To monitor multiple applications, you can share the same Sumo Logic add-on with multiple applications.

Reviewer: Remove indentation for all the lines.

    First, provision the add-on for your first application by running the following command in your app directory:
    ```
    $ heroku addons:create sumologic
    -----> Creating sumologic-test-horizontal-9854... done, (free)
    -----> Adding sumologic-test-horizontal-9854... done
    ```

    Next, attach the add-on to your additional applications using the name of the add-on returned by the create command. Then run the following command in your app directory:

    ```
    $ heroku addons:attach sumologic-test-horizontal-9854
    -----> Attaching sumologic-test-horizontal-9854... done
    ```

>     :::tip NOTE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :::note
```

    You can also run ```heroku drains``` or ```heroku drains --json``` command in your app directory to find the name of an existing Sumo Logic add-on of an app which can be attached to a new app.
    :::

    You can now access Sumo Logic. Run the following command in your app directory:
    ```
    $ heroku addons:open sumologic
    Opening sumologic for sharp-mountain-4005
    ```

    This opens up a Sumo Logic free trail account. Fill up the Sumo Logic onboarding form with the relevant details and click on **Get Started** to use Sumo Logic. The Sumo Logic add-on for Heroku sets the value of **_sourceCategory** for your Heroku log data to **“heroku”**. It is recommended to use a single add-on for multiple applications.

> * #### Provisioning the Sumo Logic add-on via the UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Provisioning the Sumo Logic add-on via the UI
```

    Provisioning the Sumo Logic add-on via the UI allows us to monitor a single app. The steps to do so are as follows:

>     1. Log into your [Heroku Dashboard](https://dashboard.heroku.com/) to view information about your apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Sign in to your [Heroku Dashboard](https://dashboard.heroku.com/) to view information about your apps.
```

    2. Click on an app to view an in-depth page about the app, which also shows all the **Installed add-ons** in the **Overview** tab.
    3. Click on **Configure Add-ons** and then search for **Sumo Logic**.
    4. Click on the **Sumo Logic** add-on to open up a add-on order form.
    5. Choose the **Plan name** and click on the **Submit Order Form** button.

>     You will now be able to see the **Sumo Logic** add-on in the **Installed add-ons** section of you app's **Overview** tab. Clicking on that add-on redirects to open up a Sumo Logic free trail account. Fill up the Sumo Logic onboarding form with the relevant details and click on **Get Started** to use Sumo Logic. The Sumo Logic add-on for Heroku sets the value of **_sourceCategory** for your Heroku log data to **“heroku”**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You will now be able to see the **Sumo Logic** add-on in the **Installed add-ons** section of you app's **Overview** tab. Clicking on that add-on redirects to open up a Sumo Logic free trail account. Fill up the Sumo Logic onboarding form with the relevant details and click on **Get Started** to use Sumo Logic. The Sumo Logic add-on for Heroku sets the value of **_sourceCategory** for your Heroku log data to **heroku**.
```

### Collecting Logs via HTTPS Log Drain

> A HTTPS Log Drain can be attached to a Heroku application via the CLI. You would first need the **URL** of a [https logs source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/http-source/logs-metrics/) on a [hosted collector](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/configure-hosted-collector/) in any [Sumo Logic account](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/manage/manage-subscription/). You would also need to install the Heroku CLI. Follow these [instructions](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#install-the-heroku-cli) to install the CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A HTTPS Log Drain can be attached to a Heroku application via the CLI. You would first need the **URL** of a [https logs source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/http-source/logs-metrics/) on a [hosted collector](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/configure-hosted-collector/) in any [Sumo Logic account](/docs/manage/manage-subscription/). You would also need to install the Heroku CLI. Follow these [instructions](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#install-the-heroku-cli) to install the CLI.
```

Then, you add an HTTPS drain for an app named **myapp**:
```
$ heroku drains:add <URL> -a myapp
```

> You will now be able to see Heroku logs flowing into that http source in Sumo Logic. You can also attach the same url to multiple apps for a single log drain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will now be able to see Heroku logs flowing into that HTTP source in Sumo Logic. You can also attach the same url to multiple apps for a single log drain.
```

To collect metric logs for an app, follow these steps:
1. Attach a log drain to the app. You can either attach a Sumo Logic add-on or a HTTPS log drain as explained in the [Collecting Logs for Heroku](#collecting-logs-for-heroku) section.
2. Enable the log-runtime-metrics:
```
$ heroku labs:enable log-runtime-metrics --app example-app
Enabling log-runtime-metrics for example-app... done
$ heroku restart
```

The metric logs will start flowing into the Sumo Logic endpoint attached to your app. The load and memory usage metrics are surfaced as system logs in the Logplex log stream. Metrics are emitted for each running dyno, at an approximate frequency of once every 20 seconds.

You can also disable this feature by:
```
$ heroku labs:disable log-runtime-metrics --app example-app
Disabling log-runtime-metrics for example-app... done
$ heroku restart
```

> ## (Optional) Set up field extraction rules for for applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## (Optional) Set up field extraction rules for applications
```

> This step is optional, but recommended, as it makes it easier for you to query your Heroku application logs in Sumo. When Sumo ingests Heroku application logs, it attaches the **_sourceName** metadata field to the the data. The **_sourceName** Sumo assigns varies by application—its value is the unique identifier for the Logplex drain assigned to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step is optional, but recommended, as it makes easier for you to query your Heroku application logs in Sumo Logic. When Sumo Logic ingests Heroku application logs, it attaches the **_sourceName** metadata field to the the data. The **_sourceName** assigns varies by application—its value is the unique identifier for the Logplex drain assigned to the application.
```

> For ease of understanding the log data, you can use a **field extraction rule (FER)** to rename **_sourceName** from the drain UUID to the application name. For general information about FERs see [Create a Field Extraction Rule](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/manage/field-extractions/create-field-extraction-rule/) in Sumo help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For ease of understanding the log data, you can use a **field extraction rule (FER)** to rename **_sourceName** from the drain UUID to the application name. For general information about FERs, refer to [Create a Field Extraction Rule](/docs/manage/field-extractions/create-field-extraction-rule/) in Sumo help.
```

You can determine the drain identifier by running the ```heroku drains``` command for your app.
The identifier will look something like:

```
d.98ee476d-d2d8-46bf-afc2-740f6f7e5b2a
```

> Then, define an FER in Sumo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, define an FER in Sumo Logic.
```

> * In the Sumo web app, go to **Manage Data > Settings > Field Extraction Rules**.

Reviewer: This is a series of step, so please add number instead of bullets.
